[Auto-generated transcript. Edits may have been applied for clarity.]
Who are like that. Just thinking like this. Like I got em.

Um, whereas, you know, so that we can.

It's like. It's like Trump. Like.

But they're not. They're not really. Good for one thing.

So there's like, it was. Probably something really cool.

Um, it's gonna be really cool, but, um, it's not for Myers.

I. That's something people part.

Sure. It's on the wall, right on June 4th.

Uh, okay. All right.

Um, like, uh, there's like that black, uh, like, receptacle, like plastic container right on the wall.

On a wall. Yeah, on the wall. Uh, down the wall.

Uh, before we get started, um, please download it, like.

Uh, it's, uh, Moodle, please. Uh, lecture eight.

There are many useful links, uh, in the slides.

Uh. Right.

Uh, thanks for coming, uh, to, uh, and, uh, I'm going to tell you all the details of the, the project.

Uh, we're going to do a project, uh, about RPG based application.

Uh, we're going to do, uh, emotion recognition from television signals.

Uh, here's a quick background. Um, picture is super popular.

I think it's the most popular, uh, uh, sensor data now on mobile health.

Um, if you're wearing, um, like Apple Watch, then you're are using it every day because, uh, literally all the, uh,

all the metrics, all the, uh, all those metrics are populated based on PPG, and one of its application is, uh, emotion.

Congratulations. Uh, I don't I don't know whether you have ever tried it.

Uh, so I personally, I think the, uh, the pressure detection on Apple Watch is it's an accurate.

You only, uh, give you warnings when when I'm very pleased.

So I hope, uh, through this project, you guys will learn how how this, this kind of application works because they actually runs in the same way,

whether it's, uh, pressure detection, uh, exercise detection, sleeping monitoring.

They're all using PPG signals.

All right. So so the goal of the project is quite straightforward.

Uh, we'll give you a data set, download it and process the data, uh, and then build a emotion classifier on it.

All right. So first is the dataset introduction.

The dataset is called which is the most popular dataset in this field.

Uh, it has 15 subjects with their 15 signals and their emotion labels.

So we're going to, uh, model it uh, the download link here, you can just click it.

And download it. Uh, after download it and unzip it, you will see, uh, data in this structure.

Uh, so the first step should be read the remaining carefully.

Uh, the room is very detailed. It tells you everything about data set.

Uh, what's inside it? Uh, how to use it? Uh.

It. Uh, there's a folder for each subject.

And under the folder here are all the, uh, central datas.

Uh, here are some some tips for you. Uh.

Uh, the most important one. This is this is the second one. Uh, you can directly use the the pico.

The pico data. Uh, it's the most easy way because it contains all the, uh, synchronize data.

Uh, why is it supervised? Uh, because out of PG, there are many others since it begins, like egg like accelerators from IMU.

So. Uh, they have to be synchronized before using it.

Uh, yeah. So. So using the Picos is the easiest way.

Uh, but here, uh, we only only use 5G data.

Uh. Yeah. So? So so you can just, uh, use it and, uh, it really second to.

It's detailed, uh, how to use it. Um.

And and our tasks. Uh, as I just said, the task is very simple.

The first one, uh, the the, uh, the first step is data processing.

The second one is modeling. Uh, and section three is, uh, telling us we are experiment results.

Uh. So the first step, uh, what you're going to do is to extract the raw signal from from the data set.

Uh. In this time, you're going to do lots of data processing.

Uh, and here at least, uh, to necessary.

Uh, stab you. You have to do it. It's, uh.

Yeah. The first one is filtering. Uh, if you visualize the row signal, you'll find that it's.

It's very irregular, unlike what you expected.

Unlike the signal, uh, hospital, you see, uh, because there are lots of noises were introduced.

Well, collecting. Uh, here is three typical, uh, noises and why they were introduced, why and how they were introduced.

So our goal is to remove all those noises to, to make it to, to make them regular.

Make them smooth. And the filter we're going to apply is a band pass filter.

Uh, and the Butterworth is the most popular one. Uh, so generally we're going to.

To to set a rent, set a bandpass,

and this filter will preserve all the signals within the within the band pass and a rule it will greatly remove signals out of that range.

Uh. Yeah, I can see the.

Here's an example. Uh, the three above is the row of signal, and this is the signal after filtering.

And here are three key, uh, parameters of this filter.

Uh, the low low, low cutoff and the high of.

Yeah. And after filtering.

The second step is segmentation.

Because, uh, for the row 5G signals, it will be a very long uh, session, uh, contain all the sessions that I have done.

So like this should be a 20 minutes 5G signals.

Uh, of course that's not going to be the input of your models.

So the first step is to segment it, uh, by by sessions.

Uh, for for age subjects is age such as, uh, should save them alone and we need to do another window ization for each subjects, each sessions.

Because for, uh, because the, let's say, uh, each subject, it's each subject, uh, amusement sessions.

Uh, it should be three minutes. And, uh, we are going to win analyze it to get more data.

Because if we don't, we realize it. Uh, for each session, they only have one sample for for each subject.

So maybe we'll set, uh, their window size to 20s and the window step to, um.

10s and we'll just segment it.

Window by windows together to get the final data we are going to use.

Uh. Uh, the two next steps.

It's definitely not now. The only two start to now.

Uh, now the only two processing steps you are going to take.

Uh, for example, you are using a deep learning models.

Of course you are going to normalize it. So.

So on your report. Well, you're going to write on your report is, uh, list all the.

Data processing steps. And tell us why you are using it.

And after completing all the. Pre-processing steps, give us a visualization of processed signals.

Uh, just like this. Like this figure. But this figure shows, uh, the row of empty or for a should be a process to produce segments.

Uh, the second part is, uh, scoring models, putting an, uh, emotion classifier on, on that dataset.

Uh, you have to implement at least one classifier, and, uh, there's no limits on the models.

Uh, machine learning models, deep learning models.

They're both okay. Uh, and all your reports.

Just tell us your implementation details. Uh, we don't need your code.

The only thing you submit is your report.

So just tell to tell us everything about your models on the report.

Uh, if you are using a deep learning models, you are encouraged to include a diagram of the model's architecture.

And here are two approaches to build, uh, emotion classification models.

Uh, the first one is an end to end approach, which means the input will be the, uh, vg segments and the output is the labels.

Uh, the model will learn how to, uh, classify the emotions from the row segments.

Uh, the second one is feature base, which means the first, I will extract some emotion related features from the signal.

And we will use those images to predict the emotional, uh, the emotion levels.

So you are encouraged to implement both of them implement as well.

Uh, more as you can and tell us your conferences.

Uh, finally, the, uh, experiments and analysis.

Ya, in this part of this, uh, show your metrics, uh, performances, uh, and tables and try your best to give us some some insights.

Yeah, uh, we know it's it's hard to tell the to tell why this model works, why the model doesn't work.

Yeah, but, uh, you just try your best to give us some insights.

Yeah. Uh, here are some final tips.

The first one is here released the the datasets original papers is super useful.

Uh, because, um, their paper, they provided, uh, their baseline models.

So when the paper shows. Uh, explicitly how they process the data and how which model they used.

And the second paper. Uh, it's a, uh, it's the latest paper of it.

Uh, it said it's a hybrid thing, which means, uh, in their model, they have two branches.

The first branch is the end to end method, and the second one is the feature based.

They. So they use both of them. Uh, both of them.

Uh, I'm not saying just using their models, but, uh, I think the two papers show you how to process the data.

Uh, and the second tip is to. It's about the traintestsplit.

So please lead them by subject. So, for training, uh, don't use, like, 80% of each subject.

You should use, like, ten subject to train and five subject to validate to to test.

Yeah. All right. Uh, this is not a, uh, programing computation.

So you can use any language programing languages, and we're not going to, uh, evaluate your report on your final, uh, performances.

So it doesn't mean your occurrence is high and you will get higher grades.

Uh, you can finish it on your own or in groups of two.

Uh. Please submit. Submit your, uh, group information by next Monday.

Uh, through this link. And the final project report deadline is April 27th.

All right. Um, any questions so far?

If there are any question, you can come over and the rest of time is yours. Ken, final team mate.

Uh, yeah. And somebody. Submit your your team information.

Yeah. Uh, you can find your team mate here.

Uh, you. No question. You are free to go. Yeah. Are we provided with?

So. Yeah. You can't.

Them. Oh.

Yes. Mr.

What you can take. A message, remember.

I'm sorry. I just. At 1.24.

I was thinking about. How awesome it could be.

Right.

